About the job
Skills:
Database Management, SQL Query Optimization, Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning, Monitoring Tools, Troubleshooting, Postgre SQL, Database Administration,

The Senior Postgre SQL DBA would need to have at least 4 years of experience with development and customer support, providing technical and operational support activities of Database Servers, including logical and physical database design support, troubleshooting, performance monitoring, tuning, and optimizing.
PostgreSQL database cloning by using Pg_dump and Pg_Restore.
Review all PostgreSQL logs and problems.
Experience with Postgres Connection Pooling (PgBouncer).
Hands-on operational DBA expertise in the areas of Replication, High Availability and Backup/Recovery.
Advanced performance-tuning skills to review performance data and prepare reports.
SQL and Linux scripting skills are required skills.
Strong communication skills are a requirement for this position.
Ability to manage customer or in-house escalation calls is required
Experience working on an Application/Development team or experience as an Application DBA.
Responsible for managing Development, QA, Staging and Production databases and applications and implementing future enhancements to meet the business needs of the end users.
Monitor database health - availability, reliability, performance, capacity planning.
Upgrading PostgreSQL Databases.
Responsible for the monitoring and uptime of all production databases.
Estimate PostgreSQL database capacities; develop methods for monitoring database capacity and usage.
Lead efforts to develop and improve procedures for automated monitoring and proactive intervention, reducing any need downtime.
Responsible for developer SQL code review to ensure queries are optimized and tuned to perform efficiently prior to production release.
Responsible for regular maintenance on databases (e.g., Vacuum, Reindexing, Archiving).
Responsible for pro-active remediation of database operational problems.
Participate in a 247 support rotation.
Support complex web-based applications.
Automatic Switchover & Failover.

